You weren't invited, right?
Hey! You're Karasuno's number ten!
You little shit...
What the hell do you think you're doing, Hinata?!
Damn it!
Hinata, being a go-getter and rash are different things.
Don't mistake the two.
It's not that I think practicing here is more important than practicing at Karasuno.
But I want to participate at a training camp that's going to be filled with talented players.
Without that setter, Kageyama,
I can't say that I sense any worth in you.
If you don't want to be a ball boy, you can go home at any time.
Sorry for interrupting practice!
I'm a first-year from Karasuno High School!
Hinata Shouyou!
I'm 164 cm tall!
And I'm a ball boy!
Thank you for having me!
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life swallowing their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Two: Lost Episode Two: Lost Episode Two: Lost
We have one month until the spring tournament.
I want you to use this time to improve on the one and only powerful individual skill in volleyball:
The serve.
I say this all the time, but don't just do your reps to get them over with.
You have to keep visualizing that you're in an actual match.
Yes, sir!
All right! Make sure I can hear you, newbies!
Right!
All right, if you'll excuse me, sir.
Here I go!
I'm gonna go for a bit.
You're heading to Yamagata, right?
One more!
Yeah. I need to go see my upperclassman from college.
All right, here we go!
I'm also gonna pop into Shiratorizawa on the way without imposing.
Give us a good serve!
Bring it!
I'll have to save lecturing Hinata for when we get back tomorrow.
I'm having Tattsun come by just in case.
He should be here any minute.
Thank you very much.
By the way, about Coach Ukai possibly showing up...
Well...
Gramps hasn't been feeling well lately, so he's back in the hospital.
I see... Oh, no. It's not a big deal.
Well, see ya later.
Thanks.
Usually, you'd be on opposing teams in qualifiers.
But while you're here, you're not opponents.
Just the fact that you're doing something out of the ordinary is important.
Take whatever you can from each other and get even better.
That's all.
Thank you very much!
Let's see... First, we're going to do passing drills.
We're going to have you remember each other's names.
Hi!
Make sure you pair with someone that's not completely equal with you.
Come on! Get a move on!
Wow, he really is the odd man out.
Even though he's a starter...
Um...
We heard you're from Karasuno and helping as ball boy.
Yes!
It's Karasuno's number ten...
Um, we're first-years from Shiratorizawa.
We're supposed to be helping out too, so it's nice to work with you.
Right back at you!
Man, two meters really is huge.
I wonder how everything looks when you're two meters tall.
The guy started volleyball in high school, yet he's been chosen to be here.
He gets to start from a completely different place than us.
Your arms aren't facing the right way.
Turn you arms so the inside is showing more.
All right, next. Spiking drills!
Hey.
That's not where you pick up the balls.
Sorry! I went the wrong way!
Just place the ball... Just place the ball...
Nice set!
How was my set?
It was fine.
Tell me more!
Koganegawa from Date Tech.
His technical skills are lacking, but he seems to be getting taller.
Nice set!
Very nice. A giant setter.
Nice spike!
Yes.
Was that a bit too high?
Yeah, a little.
I'll correct it.
A third-year from Shiratorizawa Junior High, Yura Shouta.
Nice spike!
Thanks!
I see he has no problem communicating with the older players.
Nice spike!
And the technique is there.
C-Crap!
Safe!
Be more careful!
Pick up those damn balls!
Yes, sir!
Keep your eyes on them!
He's getting yelled at more than us.
I wonder why Coach Washijou didn't just send that kid packing.
If he's not going to practice, he should just force him to go home.
He's usually not interested in small players, right?
Supposedly.
What a waste.
I'd totally nurture him as a wing spiker.
Well, Karasuno did manage to take their spot at the spring tournament this year.
Maybe he's getting back at them.
Like he'd ever do something so immature.
Nice spike!
Man, I'm starving...
Let's go home.
Yeah.
That little shrimp...
He's not the same newbie he was in junior high.
He must've put in a lot of work.
Damn it.
I guess jump serves are pretty hard.
Come to think of it, this is the first time I've ever just been the ball boy.
Even when I played with the older ladies or in junior high, they'd still let me practice.
What have you been doing for the last three years?!
I'll defeat you next time.
I'm going on ahead.
I can't...
stop!
Hey.
Could you hurry up and get ready to leave?
Unlike the King's camp, this isn't an excused absence.
We have to go to school tomorrow like normal.
Tsukishima.
I... I...
I-I'm sorry for the—
Yeah, could you not apologize?
It's not like being an impulsive dumbass is anything new for you.
You mad that you can't even really touch the ball?
Serves you right.
Wanna cry, saying you're gonna quit?
Keep doing your best, ball boy.
Make sure you don't waste a precious five days of practice before the spring tournament.
Faculty Room
Man, that Hinata kid from Karasuno was messing around with the ball until the very end.
Though I was still surprised when he crashed the training camp.
I don't mind youngins who are a bit reckless.
But...
even if he shows an excessive amount of effort or determination during this camp,
I have no intention of letting him join the practice.
Hey!
Gimme back this week's Jump!
I'm still reading "Removes Unnecessary Hair and Leaves Skin Feeling Silky Smooth."
Could you read the actual manga instead of the adverts?
By the way, you're gonna go to the first-years' training camp tomorrow, right,
Wakatoshi?
Yeah.
Haikyuu!!
Camp (back the same day)
All-Japan Youth All-Japan Youth So?
Did you really think they'd let you join the practice if you went?
Keep quiet Keep quiet
Everyone's so far ahead of me, so I wanted to do something to catch up.
I mean, he's not wrong.
And yet...
That doesn't make it okay for you to cause everyone trouble.
Right.
So you're saying that Coach Washijou doesn't care if Hinata's here or not?
Well, uh... actually, yeah.
So you volunteered to be a ball boy?
Yessir.
You stuck your nose in all this.
You'd better not regret this.
Think about what it is that only you can do there.
Also, don't go underestimating what it takes to be a ball boy.
Faculty Office
"To go a distance we must first traverse the space that is near."
To become good at something, you must follow the proper steps.
That's all.
Is there anything you'd like to say?
No, sir.
Faculty Office Please excuse me.
One lecture after another for you, huh?
When'd Daichi get to you?
First thing this morning.
How many times do I have to tell you?!
You always need to consider how your actions will affect others!
Good going, Hinata!
Suga!
Whoops, my bad.
Well, I mean, you are pretty bad.
Make sure you learn a special attack or something.
You don't often get the opportunity to play with guys from other teams.
Don't panic too much.
I'm sorry.
Shouyou!
How's the training camp going?
Th-The guy who's two meters tall is super huge!
So that one guy's there too? Uh... Manzawa!
You mean Hyakuzawa!
One, two, three, four... Five, six, seven, eight...
Shouyou, could you make the drinks again?
Two, two, three, four... Five, six, seven... Got it.
Today, we'll be doing serve and spike drills.
After that, we'll have a practice match.
Right!
Hey! Wake up!
Sorry!
A perfect straight spike...
Nice spike.
Tsutomu!
Yes, sir.
The way your body's facing.
You're completely obvious.
Nice spike!
Come at me, Hyakuzawa!
What the heck was that?
It was so cool!
Do another one of those perfect straight spikes!
All right, next, form up for a match!
Yessir!
Shouyou, get the vests!
Oh, right!
Nagamatsu!
Nice receive!
Left!
Two blockers!
Apparently that Nagamatsu guy's a third-year in junior high.
He's gonna be coming to our school, right?
Man, I can't believe he's younger than us.
Heya.
Looks like they're here.
Hello!
Ugh...
So we're really lucky.
Some third-years and alumni from Shiratorizawa agreed to play a practice match with you boys.
Bleh.
Seriously?
It's Ushijima!
You acting like a hotshot, Tsutomu?
Ushiwaka... It's actually him.
No, I'm not!
A practice match...
with Ushiwaka!
First, decide on who's going to play and the signs you'll use.
Talk amongst yourselves.
I spot number ten from Karasuno!
I'm gonna cut you down to size even more!
I'm—
Hey!
Could you make me more drinks?
Right!
Sorry!
Let's play!
Blockers!
You put your hands down way too early!
Don't give up the block that easily!
Yes, sir.
And you need to stop crouching too low before you block.
That's why you're always late.
Yes, sir!
Someone could've dug that out!
I need to hear your voices more! Talk to each other!
Wakatoshi!
So heavy... Koganegawa! A serve's coming!
Hey!
Right!
Just because we're at the net, it doesn't mean we have to slam the ball down.
Right.
Time for a lap of diving drills!
Right!
So...
why aren't ya playing?
B-Because...
I wasn't actually chosen to be here.
Huh?
Then why the heck are you here?
I-I crashed their practice.
Did you hear that, Wakatoshi?!
This kid's totally crazy!
So...
what are you even doing?
Come on, let's go mop the court.
Right!
I'll go get it!
Rolling... Thunder...
Double!
Tanaka just got run over by Nishinoya!
Nishinoya! Tanaka!
Wait, why am I getting yelled at?!
Why aren't they actually resting during break time?
The hell are you two doing?!
My bad!
Noya ran into me!
Yeah... Take this more seriously!
Hey.
We'll be doing serves next.
Yessir!
Bring it!
Hit a good one!
It's out!
Don't worry about it, Asahi!
Here I go!
Give us a good one!
You got this!
It's going out!
Ukai.
What's the matter?
Here I go!
Nice receive!
In order to win the upcoming tournament, we can't lose any of our current players.
That obviously includes Hinata.
But because of that, we've limited what Hinata should be doing.
All for what's best for the team.
In a way, we're doing the same thing as Coach Washijou and going with the most effective method.
But that's also why we have weapons that've been polished to be their best.
One more!
Not to mention, Hinata understands more than anyone else that he's got a ton of stuff to work on.
Okay, here I go!
Here I go!
One more!
So I'm sure that makes him panic a bit.
If we can always present the correct answer to them, we should.
But the best thing we can do is make sure that they don't stop thinking,
and to make sure they keep searching for what's best for them. Don't you agree?
Not to mention,
we're not the only ones thinking here.
I think we can win the next one!
Pretty sure you're imagining it.
But our blocks are finally starting to work.
Now that our blocks are coming together, it makes things in the back easier.
I need to have my team's blockers learn from this.
So,
what...
the heck am I doing?!
What have you been doing for the last three years?!
Make sure you don't waste a precious five days of practice before the spring tournament.
Don't panic too much.
I can't say that I sense any worth in you.
Just the fact that you're doing something out of the ordinary is important.
So what chance do you have if your technique is clumsy too?
To become good at something, you must follow the proper steps.
You can go home at any time.
Also, don't go underestimating what it takes to be a ball boy.
So... what are you even doing?
Find it!
Think!
I need to change my perspective!
I need to change the way I think!
Think about what it is that only you can do there.
Think about what it is that only I can do here.
Find it.
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Episode Three: Point of View
Next time: "Point of View."